## **Too long, do not read.**

### **Who am I? Shall I start like David Copperfield? I was born, I grew up...**

Let's start just a bit earlier than that, If Sam Harris is right and we live ['life without free will'](https://samharris.org/life-without-free-will/) then I am simply a product of the culture, trials and tribulations of those that came before me. In that sense I am the physical product of 2 people.
My father was an engineer, he designed and build parts for large ships in a shipyard. My mother was a photographer, she was a studio and occasions photographer. That's then 2 parts logic and method and 2 parts exploration and art. I grew up in a small industrial town of 25000 people 11 miles from the capital of my country. It is [Eleusis.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eleusis) (pronounced: 'elefsis').
I grew up between a studio and a tree, my mother's studio was so large that the air-force had it commandeered it in case of war. Oh, yes our kind neighbours always flex their muscles. The late seventies and early eighties were a time of change, my understanding of political issues was limited but I experienced that change. People changed they way they dressed and they changed their attitudes. French intellectual influence mixed with the beneficiaries of the [Marshall plan](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marshall_Plan), like oil with water. Hint they didn't.
The difference was classes got closer together, not in terms of values and attitude but in monetary terms. A new lower middle class created a feeling that my country was on the rise. After a bloody civil war and a 7 year military junta, followed by a change in political regime; 1981, brought a new government and a new deal, bad political and fiscal decisions created short term wealth that surfaced problems that my country men still suffer from today.
A giant immovable civil service society that destroyed internal industries for that favour of cheap imports at lower quality. Does this remind you of anything. It should, that's the recipe for every western European country, but I digress. Back to me.
Due to the new found small increase in wealth my parents bought me my first computer and it was an [Amstrad cpc64.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Amstrad_CPC_464) It was Christmas 1985 and I was 9 years old. I have never been without a computer since, or 2 or 3 or 18. The first couple of years I just played, with games and Basic. I liked games, don't get me wrong. But at the time they were not as immersive or as addictive as they are now, so they kind of bored me pretty quick.
So, I went to computer school as soon as I could, unfortunately the web had not been born yet and I started creating databases in [DBase,](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DBase) I sold my first program for 120.000 drachmas to a Video store, trying to explain what that is to my children is harder than you can imagine. The money paid for more equipment and I was already editing and audio dubbing video cassettes for my mothers photoshop. No, non-linear video editing software did not exist, probably only in the head of George Lucas, he created [EditDroid](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/EditDroid) who later sold a group of investors that became [Avid.](https://www.avid.com/) Unfortunately for me I had a program build in AMOS Basic running on an [Amiga,](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Amiga) using 8bit sprites to type the names of the people in the video on the screen. Long story short and editing photos and videos became my professional occupation back in the late 90's. I moved into Graphic design at the turn of the millennium.
Ironically, I did not get involved with the web until I moved to England, my wife's homeland 15 years and 11 children later, here we are I am a designer, who codes... Probably the only Designer with so many children in the world, the best children in the world!! One thing has to be mentioned, it is my wife, I have to thank for! For changing my life and helping me have a family, a purpose and responsibility.
When I first got into web design, it was because my late brother needed a website for his business. I quickly managed to build one for him and then started building more and more and more. Coding websites, in the simplest formats possible provided enough difficulty to keep me in the ['flow' state.](https://www.amazon.co.uk/Flow-Psychology-Happiness-Classic-Achieve/dp/0712657592/ref=asc_df_0712657592/?tag=googshopuk-21&linkCode=df0&hvadid=310831412334&hvpos=&hvnetw=g&hvrand=7191313893289770036&hvpone=&hvptwo=&hvqmt=&hvdev=c&hvdvcmdl=&hvlocint=&hvlocphy=9046607&hvtargid=pla-465539230515&psc=1&th=1&psc=1) where the difficulty meets the skills and it constantly creates a linear relationship between challenge and satisfaction. A few years later is when I became a civil servant, thinking at the time that not having to trick users or lie about things on the world wide web of manipulations and out right nonsense. It would be a good place to be. It's a great place to be able to design something.
